Project Overview:
This project automates tracking of portfolio transactions and dividend updates using Google Apps Script and Python in Google Sheets.


Purpose:
The purpose of making this project is to real time monitoring of client's portfolio across different region , multi asset classes and different currencies. I have created a dashboard in google sheet with portfolio attributes of diffrent client. The system is built using google sheets with backend coding is done in google app script. The portfolio attributes for different clients are displayed in a dashboard of google sheet having overall view of investment, asset allocation, transaction summary's performance metrics, portfolio performance metrics.

Data Source and Processing:

1. Input.csv:
   
   • Contains transaction details for each client.
   
   • Data is taken from the client's brokerage account.
   
   • you can refer the sheet for the data attributes and the last attributes which is live price is directly 
     incorporated from the security symbol using google sheet formula.


2. Dividend Summary.csv:
   
   • Stores dividend payout details for each client.
   
   • Data is generated by Dividend_Summary.gs


2. Dividend Amount.csv:
   
   • Stores dividend amount ticker wise on ex dividend date.
   
   • Data is generated by Dividend_Tracker.py.


   


Google App ScripT Implementation 

1. Portfolio_Summary.gs:
   
   • Fetches transaction data and dividend data from Input.csv and Dividend Summary.csv.
   
   • Performs backend calculation for key portfolio metrics which could be seen in Portfolio Summary.csv and 
     Overall Portfolio Summary.csv.
   
   • The Portfolio Summary.csv and Overall Portfolio Summary.csv are the two output sheets from 
     Portfolio_Summary.gs. The Portfolio Summary sheet contains detailed,security-wise performance for every 
     client with asset type breakdown,performance and other metrics. Overall Portforlio Summary sheet contains 
     comprehensive view of client's portfolio demonstrating portfolio metrics which includes net 
     investment,current portfolio value, realized- unrealized gain /loss, dividend, xirr,absolute return etc.

    • Instead of using external APIs, the system generates a temporary sheet within Google Sheets to obtain price details.
   
   

3. Dividend_Summary.gs:
   
   • Fetches transaction data and dividend data from Input.csv and Dividend Amount.csv.
   
   • Generate Dividend Summary sheet(Dividend Summary.csv) client wise dividend information for respective tickers.

   • Instead of using external APIs, the system generates a temporary sheet within Google Sheets to obtain price details.

4. Dividend_Tracker.py:
   
   • Fetches dividend amount details from yahoo fianncial API and update the detials like dividend amount, ex dividend date and ticker in Dividend Amount sheet. 


Output Processing

1. Portfolio Summary.csv and Overall Portfolio Summary.csv

   • The Portfolio Summary.csv and Overall Portfolio Summary.csv are the two output sheets from 
     Portfolio_Summary.gs. The Portfolio Summary sheet contains detailed,security-wise performance for every 
     client with asset type breakdown,performance and other metrics. Overall Portforlio Summary sheet contains 
     comprehensive view of client's portfolio demonstrating portfolio metrics which includes net 
     investment,current portfolio value, realized- unrealized gain /loss, dividend, xirr,absolute return etc.
   
2. Portfolio Dashboard Update

   • A summary report is generated for each client, showcasing portfolio allocation, investment performance, and dividend payouts 
   • The system fetches live security prices using the temporary sheet method.


   


